# Amazon Fine Food Reviews Analysis


Data Source: https://www.kaggle.com/snap/amazon-fine-food-reviews <br>

EDA: https://nycdatascience.com/blog/student-works/amazon-fine-foods-visualization/


The Amazon Fine Food Reviews dataset consists of reviews of fine foods from Amazon.<br>

Number of reviews: 568,454<br>
Number of users: 256,059<br>
Number of products: 74,258<br>
Timespan: Oct 1999 - Oct 2012<br>
Number of Attributes/Columns in data: 10 

Attribute Information:

1. Id
2. ProductId - unique identifier for the product
3. UserId - unqiue identifier for the user
4. ProfileName
5. HelpfulnessNumerator - number of users who found the review helpful
6. HelpfulnessDenominator - number of users who indicated whether they found the review helpful or not
7. Score - rating between 1 and 5
8. Time - timestamp for the review
9. Summary - brief summary of the review
10. Text - text of the review


#### Objective:
Given a review, determine whether the review is positive (rating of 4 or 5) or negative (rating of 1 or 2).

<br>
[Q] How to determine if a review is positive or negative?<br>
<br> 
[Ans] We could use Score/Rating. A rating of 4 or 5 can be cosnidered as a positive review. A rating of 1 or 2 can be considered as negative one. A review of rating 3 is considered nuetral and such reviews are ignored from our analysis. This is an approximate and proxy way of determining the polarity (positivity/negativity) of a review.

### Hence, the following machine learning techniques are applied to this data set to achieve the above objective:
1. t-SNE(t distribution stochastic neighbourhood embedding)
2. k-Nearest Neighbours
3. Naive Bayes
4. Logistic regression
5. Support Vector Classification
6. Decision trees
7. Ensemble models(Bagging-Random Forest and Boosting-Gradient Boosting Decision Trees)
8. Clustering(k-means, hierarchical, density based)
9. Truncated Singular Vector Decomposition om co-occurance matrix generated by the words in the review text.


[View Source] https://github.com/chauhanakash23/Sentiment-analysis-Polarity-of-review-text
